---
title: "Episode 4: A New Blog"
date: 2013-08-08 13:10
comments: true
categories: [octopress, blog, github pages, themes, zsh]
---

This is a new  Octopress blog set up here at adarsh.github.io using GitHub
User Pages (different from Group/Repo pages).

How I set it up (cribbed heavily from [this post by Paul Sturgess][1]):

<!-- more -->

Initial setup
=============

Create a new repo named `username.github.io` cloned from the Octopress repo:

{% highlight zsh %}

$ git clone git://github.com/imathis/octopress.git adarsh.github.io
$ cd adarsh.github.io

{% endhighlight %}


I'm not sure it matters much, but I use ruby 2.0.0-p247 under rbenv:

{% highlight zsh %}

$ echo '2.0.0-p247' > .ruby-version
$ gem install bundler
$ bundle install

{% endhighlight %}

Skip the installation of the default theme (`$ rake install`) - we'll install
something nicer in a moment.

Setup GitHub User Pages
=======================

Octopress has a nice Rake task for setting up a blog under GitHub Pages:

{% highlight zsh %}

$ rake setup_github_pages

{% endhighlight %}

This does a bunch of stuff. I'll let [Paul][1] explain more clearly:

> This task does quite a few things. The most important is that it creates a new
> _deploy directory that is another git repository. This is where Octopress
> generates the flat website for deployment to the master branch of your repo on
> Github.
>
> All the Octopress code used to generate the website into the `_deploy` directory
> now lives in new branch called source. Note in the source branch the
> `.gitignore` includes `_deploy` so it doesn’t get committed in two places!
>
> This sounds more complicated than it is, Octopress has rake tasks to make this
> really easy to manage. It’s worth pushing up at this point to check everything
> works before tinkering:
>
>`$ rake generate deploy`
>
> This copies the generated files into _deploy, adds them to git, commits and
> pushes them up to the master branch.
>
> Visit http://yourgithubusername.github.io and check it out

Add a Theme
===========

While Octopress is pretty great out of the box, the default theme is a little
stale. I'm using [LeanPress][2]:

{% highlight zsh %}

$ git clone https://github.com/tlvince/leanpress.git .themes/leanpress
$ rake install\['leanpress'\]
$ rake generate

{% endhighlight %}

There's a gotcha here for zsh users: Under zsh, these rake commands with square
brackets need escaping. I think it's okay to skip this under bash.

Configure `_config.yml`
=======================

There's a ton of stuff in here, but for now, just edit the stuff at the top:

```
# ----------------------- #
#      Main Configs       #
# ----------------------- #

url: http://adarsh.github.io
title: adarsh.github.io
subtitle: a development blog
author: Adarsh Pandit
simple_search: http://google.com/search
description:
```

Add Posts
=========

{% highlight zsh %}

$ rake new_post\['Episode 4: A New Blog'\]

{% endhighlight %}

This generates a `source/_posts/2013-08-08-a-new-hope.markdown` file. Edit it up
and set up preview:

{% highlight zsh %}

# In another pane/tab
$ rake watch     # will regenerate the html/css after any changes

# In yet another pane/tab
$ rake preview   # preview page at http://localhost:4000

{% endhighlight %}

Deploy again and commit the source:

{% highlight zsh %}

$ rake generate deploy
$ git commit -am 'First Commit and post!'
$ git push

{% endhighlight %}

Profit
======

Profit!

[1]: http://paulsturgess.co.uk/blog/2013/04/24/hello-octopress-and-github-pages/
[2]: https://github.com/tlvince/leanpress
